>> Kadi Kraman: So the next thing we're
going to talk about is animation.
There's actually a huge amount you can
do with animation in React Native.
Unfortunately, a lot of
it is quite involved,
there's quite a lot of code involved.
I originally thought about doing like
a swipe to delete example here or
something like that, but there's quite
a lot of code to make that happen.
But, thankfully, there is a beautifully
easy way to do limited but
full-page and
beautiful animations in React Native.
And it's called layout animation.
Layout animation is part of React Native,
so you can import it from React Native.
And what it does is it animates
the UI from its previous
state to its current state.
So you don't get any control
over how it animates,
it kinda just does some
platform-specific prettiness.
And the way you call layout
animation immediately before you do
a state change that will
trigger the UI to update.
So in our case, we'll need to call it
just before we set our ShoppingList.
So in the useEffect,
we'll do layout animation, configureNext.
And there's a bunch of presets that are
already given to you, and to be honest,
I always, always end up using this one.
So LayoutAnimation presets and
easeInEaseOut and
we can copy this and use it everywhere,
where we call setShoppingList.
>> Kadi Kraman: Lovely, so now,
when you mark things as completed,
they actually automatically animate up and
down, which is pretty neat.
For more advanced animation, you can use
Animated, that's part of React Native.
But most of the time,
you would actually use Reanimated.
>> Kadi Kraman: React Native Reanimated,
which is a hooks-based animation library.
So if you're looking to create
custom animations with React Native,
the two libraries that you're
after is React Native Animated and
React Native Gesture Handler,
which are both built by Software Mansion.
They're really good libraries,
they work really well together.
So if you do want to build
your own swipe to delete,
those are the libraries that you use.
>> Speaker 2: So, when the chat is asking,
so configureNext only
impacts the directly next line,
that is a state update.
>> Kadi Kraman: Not directly the next
line, it will be the next UI update.
So UI updates actually get batched.
So with this use state,
if you did a bunch of these use states,
you did four of them in one hook,
then they actually get batched.
So it will be the next time the component
re-renders in the UI updates.
So that's what I guess triggered.